PostHog — total overhaul + factcheck fixes (#452)
adaptyteam/adapty-docs: src/content/docs/version-3.0/posthog.mdx

---
title: "PostHog"
description: "Send Adapty subscription events to PostHog to connect what users bought with what they did in your app."
metadataTitle: "PostHog | Adapty Docs"
---

Adapty can pass subscription events (purchases, renewals, refunds, trial starts) to PostHog's event stream, so they join the rest of your data.

Each event includes revenue, currency, store, and product details, plus the paywall and A/B test variation that produced the purchase. Any PostHog tool can use this data once it arrives.

> Adapty sends events server-to-server. Your app sends nothing to PostHog on Adapty's behalf, so ad blockers and tracking prevention don't affect delivery. See [Limitations](#limitations) for other consequences of this design choice.

Reviewer: Смотри, если говорить про сеошную часть, есть такие правила:
1. Надо как можно раньше в текст вставить кусок с ключевыми словами (aka What you can do with this integration) — лучше даже до первого h2, потому что интро ооч важно для сео
2. По возможности в интро не стоит говорить о плохом ахах. Я бы убрала этот абзац здесь, снесла h2 и вынесла сюда контент из h2

## What you can do with this integration

> Adapty knows what users bought. PostHog knows what they did in your app. Neither can answer a question that spans both.

Reviewer: Очень драматично! Звучит немного обидно и для нас, и для постхога) Предлагаю сформулировать не от негатива, а от позитива. Что-нибудь в духе: Adapty's subscription events add a revenue dimension to everything you already track in PostHog или, если ближе к твоему тексту, Adapty records what users bought. PostHog records what they did in your app. Together they answer questions that span both.

Keep using Adapty for what it already measures. Take advantage of its access to stores, ad networks, and paywall/flow interactions:

- [Adapty Analytics](how-adapty-analytics-works) tracks your subscriptions and revenue — [LTV](ltv), [cohort metrics](analytics-cohorts), [funnels](analytics-funnels), [retention](analytics-retention), and [conversion](analytics-conversion).

> - [Adapty Attribution](adapty-user-acquisition) covers acquisition — [ROAS, CPI, ARPU, and channel revenue](ua-metrics). This capability is entirely missing from PostHog.

Reviewer: А это зачем? Это совсем лишнее, мне кажется

Process Adapty events in PostHog to make use of the following capabilities:

- **Session replay**: Watch sessions that ended in a purchase or a refund.
- **Feature experiments**: Measure the effect of product changes on user purchases. Adapty's [A/B tests](ab-tests) are designed for paywalls and onboardings, PostHog can cover the rest.
- **Surveys**: Target specific subscriber groups with in-app surveys. Cross-reference answer data with subscription events. For email campaigns, use [Adapty Mail](adapty-mail).
- **Error tracking**: See which subscriber category is affected by a particular bug.
- **Behavioral correlation**: Detect in-app actions that lead to purchases. Adapty sees flow interactions, but no other in-app activity.

> - **SQL querying**: Query Adapty events alongside other PostHog data.

Reviewer: Нам тут лучше сделать чуть иначе и чуть другие фичи показать (просто по тому, какие сценарии более типичны для нашей публики)

Нам тут лучше показать, какие задачи решают какие фичи Адапти и Постхога с ссылками на нас и на них

А ещё никогда не стоит эксплицитно говорить, где какая фича есть/отсутствует. У нас должен быть посыл в духе "мы усиливаем друг друга"

по контенту я бы предложила что-то вроде:

```suggestion
Adapty's subscription events add a revenue dimension to everything you already
track in PostHog:

- **Which in-app actions predict a subscription?** Correlate your own PostHog
  events with `trial_started` and `subscription_started` to find the behavior
  that leads to purchases.
- **Which experiment variant earned more?** Use Adapty's revenue events as the
  metric for a PostHog experiment on any product change. Adapty's
  [A/B tests](ab-tests) cover paywalls and onboardings.
- **What happens before a refund?** Filter session replays to sessions that
  contain `subscription_refunded`.
- **Do bugs affect renewals?** Cross-reference error tracking with
  `subscription_renewal_cancelled`, which fires as soon as a user turns off
  auto-renewal — well ahead of `subscription_expired`.
- **How do subscribers retain compared to free users?** Build cohorts and
  retention curves on derived access status — see
  [How to tell a subscriber from a free user](#how-to-tell-a-subscriber-from-a-free-user).
- **Which paywall and variation produced the revenue?** Every Adapty event
  carries both, so you can break purchases down by paywall. Capture paywall views
  with PostHog's SDK to measure view-to-purchase alongside them.
- **Ask questions across both datasets** with insights or SQL.
```

PostHog identifies each user by a string called `distinct_id`. Everything about this integration depends on Adapty and PostHog agreeing on that string.

1. The PostHog SDK assigns the user a `distinct_id`. On first launch, this string is device-scoped and anonymous. But you can assign a custom value on login, or reset it on logout.
2. On every app launch, after `Adapty.activate()` and before any purchase can happen, pass the `distinct_id` to Adapty with `setIntegrationIdentifier()`. Adapty attaches the value to the user's Adapty profile as `posthog_distinct_user_id`.
3. When the user starts a trial or makes a purchase, Adapty's servers post the event to PostHog's capture API with that `distinct_id` attached. The exchange happens server-to-server, outside your app.
4. PostHog attaches the event to the person holding that `distinct_id`, so subscription revenue appears next to everything else the user did in your app.

### Match Adapty's ID to PostHog's

Both systems must use the same `distinct_id` for a user, or one person splits into two unconnected entities. You have two ways to avoid the split, and which one fits depends on when a purchase can happen.

> **If a purchase requires login**, call PostHog's `identify()` with your **Customer User ID** at the moment the user logs in. Adapty already uses that value when it has nothing else, so both systems match without any extra app code.

Reviewer: > without any extra app code

звучит как no-code интеграция, давай уберём

Whichever route you take, the value must survive a reinstall. Adapty creates a new profile on each reinstall, and PostHog a new anonymous `distinct_id` per device, so neither system carries identity across that gap on its own. Adapty does pass paid access between a user's anonymous profiles, but that links access levels rather than analytics identity — the inheriting profile still sends events under its own ID. Without a stable ID your own backend owns, a reinstalling subscriber appears in PostHog as a new person with a renewal and no purchase before it.

:::warning
PostHog blocks certain values during person merges: `null`, `undefined`, `None`, `0`, `anonymous`, `guest`, `distinct_id`, `id`, `email`, `true`, `false`, `[object Object]`, `NaN`, empty strings, and quoted variants of these. Make sure the value you share can never take one of them. PostHog recommends UUIDs, or validation against that list before you send. See [PostHog's identity resolution guide](https://posthog.com/docs/product-analytics/identity-resolution).
:::

> Mismatched IDs cause dangerous data fragmentation — see [One user appears as several persons](#one-user-appears-as-several-persons-in-posthog).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mismatched IDs cause data fragmentation — see [One user appears as several persons](#one-user-appears-as-several-persons-in-posthog).
```

> ### Limitations

Reviewer: давай всё-таки ограничения где-нибудь пониже в статье помещать. уже после настройки точно) можно последней секцией

- **No access level or subscription status.** Adapty sends no field describing what the user currently has access to — see [How to tell a subscriber from a free user](#how-to-tell-a-subscriber-from-a-free-user).
- **Not everything recorded by Adapty reaches PostHog.**
  - The `access_level_updated` event is exclusive to [webhook integrations](webhook).
  - Five properties — original prices, discount amounts, and store-offer period counts — are also [webhook-only](webhook).

>   - Flow / paywall interactions never leave Adapty Analytics. No integration receives them, webhooks included.

Reviewer: Давай это уберём вообще
Это нельзя назвать ограничением, потому что это дизайн вебхуков, а ещё это сложно поддерживать в актуальном состоянии

- **No historical backfill.** Adapty forwards events from the moment you enable the integration. Past purchases never reach PostHog.
- **PostHog doesn't geo-tag Adapty events.** PostHog infers location from the event source's IP address. The source for Adapty events is always an Adapty server — not the user's device. To avoid data pollution, Adapty tells PostHog to skip the lookup. Adapty populates `$geoip_time_zone`, `store_country`, and `profile_country` — but no finer location data.

> - **You can't verify the integration inside your app.** Adapty events come servers, not your app, so they never reach your app's local PostHog debug output. An empty log there doesn't mean the integration is broken. Check PostHog's Activity view instead — see [Verify the integration](#verify-the-integration).

Reviewer: Но, если в целом можно верифицировать, как будто можно и не писать, что не работают отдельные способы? Не уверена

- **You can't filter Adapty events by source.** PostHog records the sending SDK in `$lib` — `posthog-ios`, `posthog-android`, `web` — but Adapty posts straight to PostHog's API without SDK mediation, so that property stays empty. Filter by event name instead.

## Setup instructions

> ### Configure PostHog

Reviewer: Тогда это, наверное, не конфигурация, а что-то типа Copy PostHog project token

1. Open [PostHog](https://us.posthog.com/) and select the project you want to connect.

2. Go to **Settings** > **Project** > **General** and find the **Project token & ID** section.

   <ZoomImage id="posthog-settings.webp" width="700px" alt="PostHog project settings showing the Project token, Project ID, and Region" />

3. Copy the **Project token**. It starts with `phc_`. PostHog describes it as write-only and safe to publish, so you don't need to rotate it.

> 4. Note the **Region** shown next to the token — `US Cloud` or `EU Cloud`. Adapty's **PostHog Cloud** dropdown uses the same two names.

Reviewer: А это же не к токену непосредственно относится, а в целом к тому, в каком deployment твои данные хранятся. На первом шаге у тебя us-specific url, например. А Европа логинится по другой ссылке

### Configure Adapty

1. Open [**Integrations** > **PostHog**](https://app.adapty.io/integrations/posthog) in the Adapty Dashboard.

2. Enable the **PostHog** toggle.

3. Paste the token into **Project API key**. Adapty checks it against PostHog on save — if the token is invalid, it fails immediately instead of silently dropping events.

4. The "server location" section depends on your setup.

    - If you use **PostHog Cloud**, set its **Region** — `US Cloud` or `EU Cloud`. Leave the PostHog Instance URL field empty.
    - If you run **your own instance**, select **Self-hosted** and populate the **PostHog Instance URL** field. Don't select a region. Adapty must be able to reach the instance without a proxy / VPN.

> 5. Under **How the revenue data should be send**, choose which revenue figure Adapty sends. The three options match the [Adapty Analytics revenue views](controls-filters-grouping-compare-proceeds#display-gross-or-net-revenue), so your choice also names the view your PostHog numbers should agree with.

Reviewer: > **How the revenue data should be send**

оч хочется на фронте поправить опечатку

Instead, separate the two with queries. Every event includes an `environment` property set to `Sandbox` or `Production`. Filter it to isolate actual revenue:

```sql
WHERE properties.environment = 'Production'
```

### Configure your app code

1. Ask PostHog's SDK for the current `distinct_id`:

   - **On every app launch**, after `Adapty.activate()` and before any purchase can happen. PostHog attributes any earlier event to [a different person](#one-user-appears-as-several-persons-in-posthog).
   - **After PostHog's `reset()`**, which most apps run on logout. `reset()` mints a new anonymous ID and doesn't link it to the previous person, so a stale value keeps pointing at the user who just logged out.

2. Pass it to Adapty with `setIntegrationIdentifier()`.

:::note
No extra call is needed after calling PostHog's `identify()`. PostHog merges the anonymous person with the identified, so Adapty events resolve the same way. See [Match Adapty's ID to PostHog's](#match-adaptys-id-to-posthogs).
:::

<SdkIntegrationNote />

<Tabs groupId="current-os" queryString>
<TabItem value="swift" label="iOS (Swift)" default>

<Tabs groupId="sdk-version" queryString>

> <TabItem value="v4" label="Adapty SDK v4+" default>

Reviewer: давай сейчас только v4 оставлять везде, где v4 не в бете  если в бете, только v3 пока

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Verify the integration

1. Trigger a sandbox purchase, then open the **Event Feed** in the Adapty Dashboard. Each delivery attempt appears with its result. Adapty verifies your **Project API key** and instance URL when you save, so failures at this stage are rare. The usual causes:

   - **A key that stopped working.** PostHog returns `401` if you delete the integration key.
   - **An instance that stopped responding.** Adapty stops waiting after 10 seconds. May affect self-hosted deployments.

   Hover a failed event to read PostHog's response.

2. In PostHog, open the [**Activity**](https://us.posthog.com/activity/explore) view and look for the event. The `environment` property of your purchase should be `Sandbox`.
3. Open that person's profile and check the **Distinct IDs** tab. Your app's own events and Adapty's server events should belong to one person. Two persons for the same user means the IDs don't match — see [One user appears as several persons](#one-user-appears-as-several-persons-in-posthog).

## Report revenue in PostHog

> Adapty Analytics stays the source of truth for revenue figures, because it calculates from complete store data while PostHog only receives what this integration forwards. If you also want revenue on a PostHog dashboard next to your product metrics, PostHog's Revenue Analytics reads it from event properties you nominate. Open **Data management** > **Revenue** in PostHog and map:

Reviewer: https://posthog.com/docs/revenue-analytics/managed-views вот сюда бы ссылочку

| PostHog field | Adapty property |
| --- | --- |
| Revenue | `price_usd`, `proceeds_usd`, or `net_revenue_usd` — match the option you selected under [How the revenue data should be send](#configure-adapty) |
| Currency | `currency`, or set a static currency if you report in USD |
| Product | `vendor_product_id` |
| Subscription | `original_transaction_id` |

Leave PostHog's "values are in cents" option **off**. Adapty sends decimal amounts, not minor units.

## PostHog event structure

Adapty sends the events you enabled in the **Events names** section of the [PostHog integration page](https://app.adapty.io/integrations/posthog), one capture request per event:

```json showLineNumbers
{

>   "api_key": "phc_1QQxKpBWc4s3zgXMTEg1cV4YUvCKCG3205iaeTSUaw5",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "api_key": "phc_YOUR_PROJECT_TOKEN",
```

Adapty resolves this order per event, not once per user. An event that fires before your `setIntegrationIdentifier` call lands under a lower-priority ID, and PostHog records a second person for the same user.

Pick one of the two setups in [Match Adapty's ID to PostHog's](#match-adaptys-id-to-posthogs), then put the value in place before any event can fire. For persons that already split, see [One user appears as several persons](#one-user-appears-as-several-persons-in-posthog).

### IP and location properties

To segment Adapty events by location, use the `store_country` and `profile_country` properties. Adapty switches off PostHog's location lookup, so PostHog adds no `$geoip_*` values of its own. The three properties below apply per event, so your project settings and your own events are unaffected.

| Property | Value | Effect |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `$ip` | The user's IP address | PostHog stores it on the event. Adapty sends the same value as an `x-forwarded-for` header. |
| `$geoip_time_zone` | The user's time zone | Adapty sets this value directly. |
| `$geoip_disable` | Always `true` | Switches off PostHog's location lookup for this event. |

### Person properties

> Everything inside `$set` becomes a PostHog **person** property instead of an event property. PostHog attaches person properties to the person rather than to a single event, so they describe the user's current state rather than a moment in time. Adapty omits any field it has no value for, and drops `$set` altogether when it has none of them.

Reviewer: > Adapty omits any field it has no value for, and drops `$set` altogether when it has none of them.

а на L500 мы пишем, что always includes

| Parameter | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `email` | String | The user's email address. |
| `first_name` | String | The user's first name. |
| `last_name` | String | The user's last name. |
| `birthday` | String (date) | The user's date of birth. |
| `gender` | String | The user's gender. |
| `os` | String | The operating system of the user's device. |

## Troubleshooting

> ### Events don't appear in PostHog

Reviewer: предлагаю траблшутинг секции делать h4, чтобы не спамить toc. можно под h2 список добавить просто

- Check the Adapty **Event Feed** first. A failed delivery shows the error PostHog returned.
- A successful delivery doesn't guarantee PostHog kept the event. PostHog answers `200 OK` once the payload and key are valid, then silently discards events that have no name or an empty `distinct_id`.
- Confirm the event you're looking for is enabled in the integration settings.
- If you host PostHog yourself, make sure the server accepts Adapty's POST requests at `/capture`. A successful configuration doesn't guarantee this access exists — Adapty uses a different endpoint to check your key's validity.

### One user appears as several persons in PostHog

> PostHog can rarely undo a split after the fact, so the goal is to prevent new ones — see [Match Adapty's ID to PostHog's](#match-adaptys-id-to-posthogs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog cannot undo most splits after the fact — see [Match Adapty's ID to PostHog's](#match-adaptys-id-to-posthogs).
```

Two ways forward:

- Derive status inside PostHog from the event history. A person whose most recent Adapty event is `subscription_started`, `subscription_renewed`, or `trial_converted` currently has access; one whose most recent event is `subscription_expired`, `trial_expired`, or `subscription_refunded` does not.
- Use the [webhook integration](webhook) to receive `access_level_updated`, then forward it into PostHog yourself. PostHog's capture API expects its own payload shape, so this needs a transformation step on your side — Adapty's webhook payload can't be posted to PostHog unchanged.

### Paywall views don't appear in PostHog

Adapty's SDK captures paywall, flow, and onboarding interactions for Adapty Analytics only. Adapty's server forwards subscription events to integrations, and these interactions aren't subscription events. Webhooks don't include them either. Capture them with PostHog's SDK where you display the paywall.

> 

Reviewer: давай это уберём, этого и не ждут

> ### PostHog costs more than expected

Reviewer: может быть просто important там, где говорим про идентификацию
